---
layout: post
date: 2020-02-20
lang: en
template: English
event_date: 2020-02-19
timezone: 8
type: Visiting Event
zh-cn: _i18n/zh-cn/_posts/2020-02-20-为何日本人会使偷袭珍珠港这个昏招.md
zh-tw: _i18n/zh-tw/_posts/2020-02-20-為防疫港澳轉機也不行-至4-30前出團暫緩.md
title: When the Internet Was Good
location: New York
image: "uploads/3-3.jpg"
tags:
- TESTING

---
> In an excerpt from Lurking, a history of being a user online, Joanne McNeil remembers the profound impact of coming of age in the small communities forged on the early internet.

Information Superhighway” once had a valence of provocative optimism, sort of like “Green New Deal” does today. It was an idealistic term, glamorizing the “highway,” an American romance, the physical expression of ambition — the texture, plotting, and substance extending to the near future. Forget the gridlock; online was endless on-ramps.

The cacophony of a 2400-baud modem announced my passage to a secret world. It felt like my spirit traveled through the wires, dialing, dinging, convulsing, and thrashing its way to a mind-meld connection with my invisible friends. The internet was an alternate vector for expression, at a time when I felt I had no connection to the physical world, just a body in space with little to say. I was shy, and in any previous era, I might have spent my teen years as a shut-in, totally bored and completely lonely. Maybe I wasted the years just the same, but the internet was more than civilization had ever offered youth with my privilege and spare time and disposition. It was an escape hatch from the trials of my adolescence: uncertain identity, no autonomy, nowhere to go, nowhere to be. (The car-versus-computer evaluation in 1986’s _Ferris Bueller’s Day Off_ seemed less settled 10 years later.) I wasn’t even in with a cool exclusive BBS or Internet Relay Chat (IRC); my internet experience up until college was plain old AOL. It wasn’t much, but it was enough for me.

The dial-up sound seemed timed to a span of hesitation I took for granted, as much as the delay of online gratification. I preferred message boards over chat rooms, and I wished everyday conversation could be similarly asynchronous. I liked that I could pass off a witty response that took me an hour to craft, as if it casually, instantly came to me.

Offline, I might prepare for a confrontation in the mirror in the minutes before it bursts, but writing online, under a pseudonym, the emotional pressure landed differently, with the calculation and temporal padding of revision. It wasn’t entirely lack of confidence, although that was a factor. Rather, it was that rewriting was part of the framework of my identity as a user. Lurking was another internet superpower — it was a real-life invisible cloak. No one could judge me for what my body said about me. When I tried to talk to other students in class, I would stammer and blush with anxiety that was limited to the physical world. Then I logged on and found community of another sort. There, I could join conversations in my own time and without awkward silences. I had control over my identity and I could choose what aspects of it I revealed to others; the intensely confessional and honest encounters spiraled out from there.

Despite a world of other options, what I chose to reveal of myself online was often not very far from myself. I spent most of my time in forums with teenage girls like me, like the AOL message boards for _Seventeen_ and _Spin_ magazines. Our communities were our shared secrets, forged between strangers, surface details unknown, but an intense understanding came to pass through all the interiority spilled. It was a lacuna of kinship.

We comforted one another while confessing to self-harm like cutting or mental breakdowns, and we shared stories about our first sexual encounters and drug experimentation. Through those communities, I could see the universality of my fears and insecurities. There were others out in the world as wounded and alienated as me. These stories tumbled out in bits, pointed and pleading, like the time in a thread about Tori Amos when someone said, unprovoked, that she carved T-O-R-I into her inner thigh. There was no reason to treat another sad girl unkindly. My internet friends were an amorphous collective, echoing and validating in the dark. It was different exploring the web: alone and reading things on my own.

Some online friends kept up pages on GeoCities and Tripod, and I would click around there. The pages looked a certain way, with design choices like pixelated purple toilet wallpaper against lines from an Anne Sexton poem in vulgar cursive. But on occasion, the look of some of these pages was cover for a darkness: dangerous, unspeakable things were communicated there, like how to live on seven grapes a day and a teaspoon of cottage cheese. A website proprietor’s inner brutality laid bare through a graphic interface felt too real, more real than the text of forums, and I couldn’t talk back to a website. I would press the “go back” key — it was not for me. I came to these bewildering online adventures through my family’s shared computer station. The absence of privacy in physical space had little influence over the material I accessed in cyberspace. I was sitting at a computer, so my parents assumed I was doing something educational. It was like reading _Story of the Eye_ with the cover swapped out with _The Wind in the Willows_.

I lived in the suburbs and I had a home in the suburbs of the internet, too. AOL, the internet’s first suburb, had its headquarters in Tysons Corner — a clustered shopping mall in Northern Virginia disguised as a bedroom community. The AOL interface was a series of grids and right angles of options, from the white text boxes to communicate in emails and instant messages, to the long rectangular buttons that opened up to channels; it was boxed and specific like the kiosk maps inside the Tysons mall. Maybe I can’t remember what was out the window, but I will never forget the robo-voice of the man announcing “You’ve got mail,” or its ominous sound effects, like the creak of a door opening or slamming shut to represent whenever a Buddy List contact signed on or logged off. It was unsophisticated and trifling, but like the suburbs of the physical world, the weird, uncanny, and perverse also thrived there in secret.

If I wanted to know more about the invisible people I thought of as my friends, I could look up their profiles, and what they answered in the AOL questionnaires about age and where they lived, hobbies, and “personal quote,” which was usually a quote from someone else. But we rarely took the AOL profile questions seriously. Once I filled out my profile in the voice of an overeager Conway Twitty fan. I barely knew who Conway Twitty was, but it was funny to me for reasons I can’t explain. I still barely know who Conway Twitty is, or why I wrote the profile this way, but still, it strikes me as hilarious, for reasons I couldn’t try to articulate. I guess it tickled the absurdity of having to be someone online, having to be someone at all. Why on earth would I be myself online — a person I hated?

Sometimes my online friends and I would loiter in general chat rooms and annoy the other users — the lonely adults — with our inside jokes and indecipherable references. We went exploring together, following internal hyperlinks to desolate corners of AOL, to squat there, and use the chat and forum setups as our own semiprivate group communication tools. I could even get lost there. On one excursion, I found an old AOL menu bar that included phased-out channels and internal content that hadn’t been updated in months or even years. AOL hadn’t deleted this content detritus; it only delinked and delisted these channels that were no longer in operation — but somehow I clicked my way over to it.

There was a dead channel in that expired menu, which was called “DeadOnline,” too on the nose in name, but it was a real thing. Most of the posts in its inactive forums were from 1995, and it had to be a year or two later when I discovered it. There were a few recent posts, which sounded like graffiti tags; sentences like “LazySusan was here” or simply “Hi!” It wasn’t a community, it was an excavation site. The other recent users must have found it, as I had, through an AOL back alley — a rectangle that wasn’t supposed to be there, which they clicked on anyway. I posted something myself: “hi. Is anyone here?” The note was as conversational as marginalia in a library book. There were no notifications. The only way I might have seen if anyone answered my message was if I returned to the DeadOnline forum, either through the bookmark or the outdated menu I’d found. It could have been months or years until another person accessed it. I don’t know if they did, because I never remembered to check back.

Only now, more than 20 years later, with the power of Google, did I look up the name of this channel and learn that indeed it was called “DeadOnline” or “Deadline,” after the old British comics magazine. The AOL channel was created to promote the upcoming _Tank Girl_ movie. That’s what I mean about how hazy my cyberspace memories are: I remember my excitement when I stumbled on this digital ghost town, but it wasn’t until this very minute, and with the assistance of a modern search engine to connect me to someone else’s reminiscences, that I could recall all that _Tank Girl_ branding on that dead community, DeadOnline.

AOL was a closed platform, a “walled garden,” a term that always makes me think of Frances Hodgson Burnett, but it was full of weeds. AOL’s own executives talked about their product as tacky, and their users as dupes. “We have the opportunity to become the Carnival Cruise Lines of this environment,” Ted Leonsis, the company president in 1995, told _Wired_. He was shepherding an environment to compete with the astronomical 200,00-odd sites on the World Wide Web. The company strategy was to build accessible, attention-grabbing content so new users wouldn’t feel overwhelmed. The company’s target audience, Leonsis said, was the kind of person who might “run to the Hard Rock Cafe” once they arrived in a foreign country. The CEO’s comments confirmed all the suspicions of longtime internet users. “Eternal September” — a term that fittingly outlived Usenet — was coined in the fall of 1993, when AOL offered Usenet access to its users, disrupting countless communities; the influx never ceased, but continued to wreak havoc on various rec and alt groups. To them, AOL users were the fanny-pack masses, an invasion of the squares. AOL users poked around Usenet with unsophisticated usernames, posted in ALL CAPS, left tacky newbie questions, and suburbanized cyberspace and its atmosphere.

AOL wanted America… online. Just what it said on the tin — well, polycarbonate plastic. It tried to onboard the country with ubiquitous setup disks and CDs that seemed to erupt from every magazine or cereal box. “When we launched AOL 4.0 in 1998, AOL used ALL of the world-wide CD production for several weeks. Think of that. Not a single music CD or Microsoft CD was produced during those weeks,” a former AOL employee reminisced on Quora. AOL was as much training wheels for the internet as it was a gateway drug to full-on internet addiction. Before the service allowed unlimited use, its cap at 20 hours a month was excruciatingly stingy. Bills could run more than a hundred dollars in overage fees (and, yes, I got in trouble for that more than once).

People who might have only just learned what the internet was a few months before were soon cooking up schemes to cheat these limits. I always wondered why some of my friends on AOL cycled through so many usernames. I thought it was just teen angst and identity stress, like a new shade of Manic Panic hair color. Later, I learned they were phishing. Someone might create an official-looking username like “JanetAOL” and pretend to be an admin and request a password. Then they’d create a fresh new username on that user’s account (every AOL subscriber could maintain five usernames). They would log in with the phished account on their home computers, and the time they spent on AOL would be counted as the phishee’s outlay. Evidently not everyone was maxing out their 15 to 20 hours, because the person who told me — 10 years after our last AOL chat, in a conversation face-to-face — never got caught.

Now AOL is little more than an email service and home page on the web for boomers and seniors who never moved on. After social media, broadband rollout, routine service outages (“America on hold”), and a disastrous merger with Time Warner, it floundered, but not entirely. As recently as 2015, the company reported 2 million dial-up subscribers, and — in accord with the times — ad sales was its major source of revenue. More recently, it entered a dinosaur internet supergroup along with Yahoo under the banner “Verizon Media” (formerly “Oath”).

America Online is easy to mock. It was pedestrian, hypercapitalist, and a failure — as we see now, but some criticism of it was tinged with classism. What was wrong with reaching out to communities outside hipsters and hackers? What’s so bad about using the internet to exchange recipes or read about gardening — or, yes, recommend cruise vacations — instead of creating mailing lists for Pavement fans or developing multiuser dungeon games? AOL’s lasting influence is that it disentangled the identity of a general internet user from any kind of subculture or aesthetic. But I am biased because while AOL zeroed in on customers in the suburbs, it collected another audience common there: the children of cruisegoers, those who are dragged to the Hard Rock Cafes unwillingly — the alienated and over-it teens, like I was then.

I left AOL behind once I got to college and experienced the euphoria of a dorm room Ethernet connection. The web, which I only dallied with as an AOL user, became the centerpiece of my internet life. All the energy I had once put into appropriating various AOL spaces for my own purposes, I later applied to exploring what seemed like infinite web pages. A few months into the first semester, I began to miss my AOL friends. I wondered what was happening back in my favorite forums and chat rooms. Then I discovered I could download the AOL software and check my account over the Ethernet. “You’ve got mail,” said the disembodied robo-guy. It was just as I remembered, except that all my old haunts had turned to ghost towns.

Many of my online friends had also left AOL when they went off to college. In our absence we created new dead sites, new DeadOnlines. All our conversations and confessions could be turned over and pored through by some intrepid lurker, as the community was no longer living, but the posts were there, for a few years after we had moved on. Later, when AOL transitioned into a web-only ISP, all those channels and forums and chats were purged. But it is okay. We weren’t recording ourselves. We were just living on it.